In this tutorial, you're going to learn how to call external programs from your
python scripts. This is particularly useful as part of an automation
script, for example, you want your python program
to run the ls command and capture the output.
On Mac and Linux, this command lists the files and directories
in the current directory. This is equivalent to the dir, or
dir command on windows. So in this lecture you're going to learn how to run
any of the operating system commands as well as external programs,
for example, you can have your python script execute another
python script. For that we need to run python 3, let's say
other.py so let me show you how to achieve this.
On the top, we import the sub process module.
With this module we can spot a child process. A
process is basically an instance of a running program. So with this
module, we can run other programs. Now in this module
we have a bunch of functions or methods like call, check,
call check output, and so on. All
these methods are helper methods to create an instance
of the p open class process
open. Now, these methods have been around for a long time, and
they're kind of considered legacy, there is a newer method, and that is
the preferred approach, to create an instance of the p open class.
That method is called run.
So if you look at other tutorials or courses, and they talk about these methods
remember there is a better approach, so don't waste your time on these methods.
Now let's see how we can use the run method to run an external
program. The first argument to this method is an array of strings.
Here is an example, lets say you want to run the ls
command. So we add that here. Now, if you want to supply any arguments
to this command we add them as items in this array.
So, let's say ls -l, which gives us a detailed view of the
files and directories in the current directory. Let me show you.
So ls -l here's what we get
we get the name of the file, it's creation date, size, owner,
and so on. So, let's save the changes,
run this program, as you can see our program,
executed ls - l command and this is the output
printed on the terminal window. Now let's look at the
return value of this method. So, let's call it result
and print it's type. Run the program.
again, so what we get is an instance of this class.
Subprocess the completed process. So let's rename
this variable to completed.
Okay, now look at the attributes of this object.
We have args, return code,
standard derr and standard output. Let's inspect each of these outputs.
So I'm going to print this also
for clarity I'll learn to add a label, after that,
let's print return code, and change the
label accordingly, next let's print standard
error, standard error, and finally
standard output. So std
out. Let's run the program and see what we get.
So args is an array that includes the command that we execute.
Return code is zero, which means success, any
secure values indicates an error. Now in this case because we don't have any
errors, standard error is none, otherwise we'd have an error message
here, and standard output is also none because
you're not capturing the output, the output is automatically printed on the terminal
window. Sometimes we want to read the output of another window and do something
with it. Perhaps we want to save it to a file. So let me show you how to do
that. This run method takes quite a few keyword arguments and all of these
have default values, the one we're going to use now is
capture output. If we set this to true,
when we run this program the output will not be printed on the terminal,
it will be available in this attribute. Standard output.
Let's take a look, save the changes, I'm going to comment out this line.
And run the program, so look, we don't see the
list of files and directories here. The output is available
in this attribute, so let's print that and see what we get.
There you go. Now note that this
string is prefixed wit b, which represents
a binary object, to convert this space string we need to pass
another argument to the run method, so I'm going to break this down into multiple
lines for clarity, lets add
text to true. Now when we run this program,
we no longer see a b prefix so,
here we have a regular string object. Now we can print this on the screen terminal
window, or save it to a file. As another example,
here, let's run another python script. So I'm going to create
a separate file here, let's call that other .
py let's say this is a complicated python script
that we want to call as part of running our main script. So,
for now let's just print here is a complicated
script. Now back to app.py,
we can simply run this script as a child process. So,
instead of ls you want to execute python or python 3,
and as the argument, we pass other
.py. Save the changes, run the program
so as you see the other script is executed and here
is the output that we captured. Now note that here I'm executing
this other python script as a child process, so it's going to be a
completely different memory space. This is different from importing that script
and executing it here. So these two scripts will be two different processes
and they will not share the same variables. So this is the basics of
running child processes. And one last thing before we finish this lecture.
Earlier I told you that any non zero return code indicates
an error. So let's take a look at a real example.
We have this command called false, I'm not entirely sure if this
is available on windows or not, but if you're a windows user and this doesn't work on your machine
please bare with me. So lets run this program, and see what happens.
As you see, our return code is 1, because this
false program always exits with 1 as the return code to indicate
an error. Now, it's our job to check for this error, so
1 way it to check if completed
.returncode is not zero, then
perhaps we want to print completed.
standard error. The other approach is
to pass another keyword argument here, check
we set this to true. When we do that, if there is an error,
this method will automatically raise an exception. Let's take a
look. So, I'm going to run this program one more time, as you can see we have
an exception of type called process error. And this class is defined
in the sub process module. With this change we don't have to
check for errors like this, so we can wrap this code in a
try block and then
add the except clause. Except when we want to capture
the subprocess.call.process error, you can get the
exception in this object, and then simply print it on the terminal.
So this is all about running external programs in your python script.